# RaaS API Docs

The RaaS API documentation is generated using the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) tool. This tool allows you to generate html files using markdown format files.

This model was built by [CloudCannon](http://cloudcannon.com/).

## Steps to start working on the documentation

  1. Install [Ruby+Devkit](https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/)
  2. Install [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)
  3. Clone the project

## Changes to current documentation

To add a new section to the documentation or to modify an existing section, simply add or modify a markdown file in one of the folders representing a collection.

The current documentation contains the following three collections 
* Documentation
* API
* Appendix

In order for the file to be processed by Jekyll, it must start with a front matter block. See the files currently in place as an example or the following documentation

[Jekyll Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/)

**Note**: Do not work on or make changes to files located in the *_site* folder. These are the files generated by Jekyll, so all changes made to files located in this folder will be lost when the server is started. 

### Documentation collection structure information

* Each section of the documentation is a different collection. This helps organize the content.
* The order of the collections is determined by the position_number fields in the collection configuration in the `_config.yml` file.
* The order of items in a collection is determined by the position_number field in a front matter block in a markdown file, e.g. `introduction.md`.

## Start the server

Install the Gemfile dependencies with [Bundler](http://bundler.io/):

~~~bash
bundle install
~~~

To quickly see the changes made at [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000.com), run the following `Jekyll` command using `Bundle`:

~~~bash
$ bundle exec jekyll serve
~~~

## Deployment of Changes

The site is deployed onto Netlify via a continuous deployment process which just requires a push to the `main` branch to publish new changes.

When adding changes to the site, first open a pull request. Netlify will automatically deploy a separate site to preview the changes in the PR. Information on preview site, including URL, will be automatically added to the PR as a comment.

## Alternate environments

The documentation site can be customized for alternate environments by defining a new `_config-{env}.yml`. There are two primary steps to this process:

1. Define a new file `_config-{env}.yml`, where `{env}` is a short name for the environment (such as `dev`). In this file, define the environment-specific variables you want to override from the [default](_config.yml) configuration file.
2. Serve a local version of the site with the custom configuration by running the following, which will use the default configuration file and override with any variables defined in your custom configuration:

~~~bash
bundle exec jekyll serve -w --config _config.yml,_config-{env}.yml
~~~

A similar command can be used when **building** the site for deployment with a custom configuration:

~~~bash
bundle exec jekyll build -w --config _config.yml,_config-{env}.yml
~~~